Hi there.
This is in our demo of default methods.
We covered quite a few details and let's now do a quick recap of what was demonstrated.
Some of the points are better group here and so it might be helpful.
Plus this, we need to use default modifier and note that default methods can be used only in interfaces
and we cannot use them in classes.
Keep in mind that they are incidence methods so they cannot be accessed via the interface name.
In one of the follow up lessons, we will take a look at static methods which can be defined in an interface
which means that those static methods can be accessed via the interface name.
With the introduction of default methods, we can have identical method definitions from two different
super types and we know that this could lead to the diamond problem.
But the language designers have some conflict resolution rules in place in order to take care of this.
First one is that classes win over interfaces.
That is, the definition in a superclass has higher precedence over the default method in a super interface.
And due to the same rule, default methods can never override object class methods.
Now, if you have a default method in super interface and if it is overridden in a sub interface and
if your class is implementing the sub interface, then the version in the sub interface is picked.
So the more specific version is picked.
This is straightforward as it is no different from how an overriding method is picked in a regular class
hierarchy.
So both these rules apply at runtime.
Rule three is basically manually fixing the issue as a scenario and context is different from the first
two cases.
You may recall that it may happen if one interface provides a default method, and then there is a second
independent interface that provides either an abstract method or a default method with the same name.
In this case, the concrete class, which is implementing these two interfaces, must provide an implementation
for that method.
Otherwise we get a compiler error.
I believe it would not be an issue for the programmer to resolve this the very first time when both
the interfaces are being implemented.
However, sometimes this may not be the case.
For example, let's consider a class X, implementing interfaces A and B, and let's also assume that
Interface A is providing a default method named go.
However, let's say in future, if Interface B also decides to add a default method named go, then
if it tried to recompile class x, then there will be a compiler error and it would require a manual
fix.
However, I would assume that this would be a very rare situation.
So that's about the conflict resolution strategies.
Next is about explicit invocation of a default method in a super interface.
For this we use super keyword and it must be parent type dot super.
We cannot do either grandparent super or we cannot use only super keyword, which is reserved for invoking
a method in the super class.
Note that only super keyword cannot also be used in a default method.
A default method can be re obstructed in a sub interface or in an abstract subclass.
This is done if a subtype thinks that the default implementation is not good enough and requires its
own subtypes to provide a better implementation.
Finally, we cannot use final or synchronised keywords with default methods by virtue of its definition.
A default method is basically a default implementation of an interface method.
So if needed, a subtype should be able to override it.
And so a default method cannot be final.
So the subtype might provide a better implementation.
Synchronized keyword will be introduced in concurrency chapter.
And so let's not worry about it for now, but just note that it cannot be used.
So that's about default methods.
And we covered all the details from our demo.
Thank you.